
(TEXT FOR SHC_fig1)
We introduce a model for the effect of cesium adsorbates on the work function of transition
metal surfaces. The model builds on the classical point-dipole equation by adding exponential
terms that characterize the degree of orbital overlap between the 6s states of neighboring
cesium adsorbates and its effect on the strength and orientation of electric dipoles along the
adsorbate–substrate interface. The new model improves upon earlier models in terms of
agreement with the work function–coverage curves obtained via first-principles calculations
based on density functional theory.


(TEXT FOR SHC_fig2)
The work function and stability of 570 alloyed alkali earth oxide films on W(100) have been
calculated within density functional theory. Computational screening of this large phase space
was enabled by utilizing the virtual crystal approximation, where the degree of freedom in the
chemical composition is modeled with virtual atoms of mixed Ca, Sr, and Ba character. Low
work functions are achieved by doping the films with Sc or Li and alloys containing small
amounts of Ca. In particular, Li doped systems with small Ca content also show favorable
stability. We have shown that control of the screening of the intra-film interactions 
by O atoms is essential for the design of new low work function materials.






PROFILE LINK

http://www.linkedin.com/in/cnorahs






PUBLICATIONS

S. H. Chou, J. Voss, A. Vojvodic, R. T. Howe, F. Abild-Pedersen,  	
“DFT study of atomically-modified alkali-earth metal oxide films on tungsten”, 
In revision at Journal of Physical Chemistry C, Jan. 2014

I. Brodie, S. H. Chou, H. Yuan,
“A general phenomenological model for work function”,
In review at Surface Science, Jan. 2014

J. Voss, A. Vojvodic, S. H. Chou, R. T. Howe, I. Bargatin, F. Abild-Pedersen,  	
“Thermionic current densities from first principles”, 
Journal of Chemical Physics, 138, 204701, May 2013

S. H. Chou, J. Voss, I. Bargatin, A. Vojvodic, R. T. Howe, F. Abild-Pedersen,
“An orbital-overlap model for minimal work functions of cesiated metal surfaces”,
Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter 24, 445007, Sept. 2012

R. Rithe, S. Chou, J. Gu, A. Wang, S. Datla, G. Gammie, D. Buss, A. Chandrakasan, 
“The effect of random dopant fluctuations on logic timing at low voltage”, 
IEEE Transactions on VLSI Systems 20, 5, May 2012




PRESENTATIONS AND PATENT

S. H. Chou, J. Voss, A. Vojvodic, R. T. Howe, F. Abild-Pedersen,  
Discovering materials with ultra-low work functions for thermionic energy conversion, 
presented at the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) Annual Meeting, San Francisco, CA, Nov. 2013 

S. H. Chou, H. Yuan, J. Voss, A. Vojvodic, F. Abild-Pedersen, P. Pianetta, J. K. Nørskov, R. T. Howe,
Discovering materials with ultra-low work functions for thermionic energy conversion, 
presented at Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) Research Symposium, Stanford, CA, Oct. 2013

S. H. Chou, J. Voss, A. Vojvodic, R. T. Howe, F. Abild-Pedersen,  
Discovering materials with ultra-low work functions for energy conversion applications, 
presented at the European Materials Research Society (E-MRS) Fall Meeting, Warsaw, Poland, Sept. 2013

S. H. Chou, J. Voss, J. W. Schwede, I. Bargatin, K. Littau, D. C. Riley, A. Vojvodic, F. Abild-Pedersen, 
P. Pianetta, R. T. Howe, N. A. Melosh et al,  
Capturing light and heat in concentrated solar thermal energy conversion: discovering materials with ultra-low work functions, 
invited talk at Women Powering Technology Summit, Santa Clara, CA, June 2013 

S. Chou, J. Voss, I. Bargatin, F. Abild-Pedersen, A. Vojvodic, P. Pianetta, J. K. Nørskov, R. T. Howe,
Discovering materials with ultra-low work functions for energy conversion applications: orbital-overlap model
presented at Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) Research Symposium, Stanford, CA, Oct. 2012

S. Chou, I. Bargatin, F. Abild-Pedersen, A. Vojvodic, P. Pianetta, J. K. Nørskov, R. T. Howe,
Using first-principles simulations to discover materials with ultra-low work functions for energy conversion applications, 
presented at Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) Research Symposium, Stanford, CA, Oct. 2011

R. Rithe, S. Chou, J. Gu, A. Wang, S. Datla, G. Gammie, D. Buss, A. Chandrakasan,
Cell library characterization at low voltage using non-linear operating point analysis of local variations,
presented at IEEE 24th International Conference on VLSI Design, 2011

D. Buss, S. Chou, A. Wang, J. Gu, S. Datla, “Computationally efficient SSTA with non-Gaussian delay”, disclosure TI-66728

